README.md, before:

# TypeScript Project Files Template for OGP

## Folder Structure
Two separate TypeScript projects, `frontend/` and `backend/`, 
for frontend and backend respectively.

Structure within frontend/backend folder taken from \[1\]. Notably, 
we distinguish between `lib/` and `src/` directories, the latter for
files that we have to process (eg, transpile) into `build/` or `dist/`. 

## Environmental Variables

For `npm run dev` to work, go to `backend/`, copy the `.env.example` file and past as a `.env` file.

## Linting
Done with ESLint, using the following rule configs:

- `eslint:recommended` 
- `plugin:prettier/recommended`

Prettier is further configured using the rules in `.prettierrc.js`.

VSCode users will have to add the following to their ESLint extension
settings for linting to work in both `frontend/` and `backend/`:

```json
    "eslint.workingDirectories": [
        "backend",
        "frontend"
    ],
```

### Additional rules
Developers are free to add more ESLint rules that bring their project
in-line with norms specific to their language or framework of choice,
eg. typescript or React.

## Conventional Commits
Commit messages follow [conventional commits](https://conventionalcommits.org/).
This is enforced by commitlint, when pushing to remote branch.

### Commitizen
[Commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) has been installed as a 
convenience for writing conventional commit messages, via `npm run cz`.
This may be removed to minimise project dependencies.

## Commit Hooks
Husky is used in tandem with:

- lint-staged to ensure files are linted on commit
- commitlint to ensure commits adhere to convention on push

The pre-push hook will interfere on initial push since commitlint
uses the remote branch as the lower bound in the commit range to inspect,
and there would be no remote branch. Bypass this the first time with
`git push --no-verify`.

## Continuous Integration
Travis is commonly used in OGP. A `.travis.yml` config has been provided
for convenience, which will run the following in order:

- unit-tests
- linting
- commit linting

Builds will fail if any of these tasks fail.

## Miscellany

### Dependabot
`.github/dependabot.yml` is in place so that npm dependencies will be 
regularly updated.

### Gitpod
A `.gitpod.yml` has been configured to run `npm install` for 
Gitpod users creating workspaces from the repository.

## References

\[1\]: https://gist.github.com/tracker1/59f2c13044315f88bee9

Commit message:

build: add detect-secrets to scripts and pre-commit hooks

README.md, after:

# TypeScript Project Files Template for OGP

## Folder Structure
Two separate TypeScript projects, `frontend/` and `backend/`, 
for frontend and backend respectively.

Structure within frontend/backend folder taken from \[1\]. Notably, 
we distinguish between `lib/` and `src/` directories, the latter for
files that we have to process (eg, transpile) into `build/` or `dist/`. 

## Environmental Variables

For `npm run dev` to work, go to `backend/`, copy the `.env.example` file and past as a `.env` file.

## Linting
Done with ESLint, using the following rule configs:

- `eslint:recommended` 
- `plugin:prettier/recommended`

Prettier is further configured using the rules in `.prettierrc.js`.

VSCode users will have to add the following to their ESLint extension
settings for linting to work in both `frontend/` and `backend/`:

```json
    "eslint.workingDirectories": [
        "backend",
        "frontend"
    ],
```

### Additional rules
Developers are free to add more ESLint rules that bring their project
in-line with norms specific to their language or framework of choice,
eg. typescript or React.

## Conventional Commits
Commit messages follow [conventional commits](https://conventionalcommits.org/).
This is enforced by commitlint, when pushing to remote branch.

### Commitizen
[Commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) has been installed as a 
convenience for writing conventional commit messages, via `npm run cz`.
This may be removed to minimise project dependencies.

## Commit Hooks
Husky is used in tandem with:

- lint-staged to ensure files are linted on commit
- commitlint to ensure commits adhere to convention on push

The pre-push hook will interfere on initial push since commitlint
uses the remote branch as the lower bound in the commit range to inspect,
and there would be no remote branch. Bypass this the first time with
`git push --no-verify`.

## Secrets Detection

This project makes of [detect-secrets](https://github.com/Yelp/detect-secrets) to prevent secrets and credentials from being committed to the repository. It runs as a pre-commit hook and it needs to be installed (runs as part of `npm run prepare`) if you intend to make commits to the repo.

**Note**: The reason we're running `detect-secrets` through `detect-secrets:precommit` instead of using `lint-staged` is because `detect-secrets-hook` doesn't work well with the combination of output of staged files by `lint-staged` and baseline supplied.

Upon blockage by `detect-secrets-hook`, please take these steps:

- Go into each of the locations pointed out by `detect-secrets-hook` and remove accidentally added secrets
- If some of these detections are false positive (please be super sure about this, when not sure check with teammates), update the secrets baseline by running `npm run detect-secrets:updateUpon blockage by `detect-secrets-hook`, please take these steps:

- Go into each of the locations pointed out by `detect-secrets-hook` and remove accidentally added secrets
- If some of these detections are false positive (please be super sure about this, when not sure check with teammates), update the secrets baseline by running `npm run detect-secrets:update

## Continuous Integration
Travis is commonly used in OGP. A `.travis.yml` config has been provided
for convenience, which will run the following in order:

- unit-tests
- linting
- commit linting

Builds will fail if any of these tasks fail.

## Miscellany

### Dependabot
`.github/dependabot.yml` is in place so that npm dependencies will be 
regularly updated.

### Gitpod
A `.gitpod.yml` has been configured to run `npm install` for 
Gitpod users creating workspaces from the repository.

## References

\[1\]: https://gist.github.com/tracker1/59f2c13044315f88bee9
